1)  Implemented seperate rule for glutathione oxidation. Concerns 365 reactions in the MetaQSAR dataset.
    This case is now taken care of right at the beginning of the pipeline as a separate category.
        TODO:   There are a few cases of subclass 104 where the glutathione "replaces" a halogen. 
                The labels are inconsistent. The annotator sometimes fails to find the ground truth.
                I need to find a plausible reaction mechanism for this biotransformation to settle the case.

2)  Moved the molecular weight filter to the critical part of the algorithm (MCS matching and simple redox reactions),
    so that other parts of the algorithm which are not too affected by the size of the molecules can run without rejection.
    This reduces the mumber of rejections, whithout increasing the runtime by a significant amount.

3)  Implemented reaction halogen -> hydroxy group as a separate reaction type. Previously, it was handled during MCS matching.

4)  Removed the maximum molecular weight and minimum number of heavy atoms filters.
    It does not affect more than 100 reactions, and I think this is the fairer way to evaluate the model.

5)  In general, I'm working on refactoring the code to make it as clear and maintanable as possible.
    This includes splitting large functions into more manageable subfunctions and adding documentation.
    I've also started to use the recommended CI-CD pipeline.

6)  Verbosity: added the annotation rule to the output (see "annotation_rule" property in the substrates.sdf output file) for easier tracking.
    This info could already be found in the log file, but this is even easier.

7)  Concerning the ester hydrolysis: until now, dealkylation reactions and ester hydrolysis were being taken care of 
    separately and resulted in different annotation strategies. This annotation is consistent with the MetaQSAR data set.
    However, BASF has requested that this strategy should be revised because experts tend to disagree on whether to annotate
    the carbonyl C-atom (current strategy) or the alkyl C-atom (similar to dealkylation reactions).
    In order to acomodate both views, I have added a command-line option to deactivate the special ester hydrolysis annotation.
    Per default, SOMAN annotates ester hydrolyses with the same logic as dealkylation reactions (on the alkyl C-atom).
    If the -e argument is set, the annotation of ester hydrolyses is on the  carbonyl C-atom and is thus consistent with MetaQSAR.

    Further research: I am assuming that ester hydrolyses are perfromed in majority by carboxylesterases.
    I have no way of knowing this for certain, because the enzyme is not indicated in the MetaQSAR data set. So this is an educated guess.
    According to the literature, the SoM is in this case the carbonyl C-atom (via a nucleophilic attack by a deprotonated serine residue).


8)  Concerning the hydrolysis of phosphate-derivatives, we can differentiate two cases: in the first case, the recorded metabolite
    does not contain the phopsphore atom, in the second case, the recorded metabolite does contain the phosphore atom. I managed to modify
    the handling of this type of reaction so that if the first case arises, the annotation is always correct. For the first case,
    I have not been able to write a rule that would annotate it correctly while not messing with other types of elimination reactions.
    This concern approx. 25 reactions in my data set. I will come back to these later on.

29.01.25

1) Changed labelling of "halogen to hydroxy oxidation", "halogen to epoxide oxidation" and "halogen to quinone-like oxidation" to "halogen to hydroxy", "halogen to expocide" and "halogen to quinone-like".
2) Simplified handling of "complex (maximum common subgraph matching)" reactions.
3) Greatly improved results of "complex (maximum common subggraph matching)" reactions by introducing an exception for the opening of heterocycles and manually correcting many inconsistent ground truth annotations.

31.01.25

1) Refactoring
2) Started working on handling of alkyl chain carbon atom deletions (reaction subclass 119 in MetaQSAR). Not working yet.

TODO:

1)  Currently I annotate both C and O for redox reactions at ketones/alcohols. This is consistent with MetaQSAR. but BASF argues that it is confusing. Find a solution?
2)  Morpholine: look at it again; BASF found an example where the pipeline completely fails. For now, I simply removed it.
3)  Look at ring closure reactions (reaction subclass 85). These are very tricky and I only have a few examples.

Current state:

    number of annotated reactions: 5712
    number of reactions where the pipeline runs to the end without finding any SoMs (i.e. "fails"): 20
    percentage of full match: 91.3%
    perecentage of partial match: 95.2%
    number of reactions filtered out due to being too large (>45 heavy atoms): 68
    
    runtime: ca. 30min for filter at 45; ca. 5min for filter at 30
